---
title: "Structure your Node.js applications with NodeXT"
location: Helsinki, Finland
layout: post
categories:
  - nodejs
  - coffeescript
published: false
---
[Node.js](http://nodejs.org) is a young platform, and the practices on how to build maintainable applications for it are still evolving. There have been some attempts to port popular frameworks from other platforms, like the Railway project which emulates Ruby on Rails. There are also application structure generators like Skeleton.

I fear that the emphasis on code generation will mean duplicated functionality, invariably causing problems later when software enters in maintenance phase. In the book The Pragmatic Programmer this issue is discussed under the label of orthogonality:

> We want to design components that are self-contained: independent, and with a single, well-defined purpose. When components are isolated from one another, you know that you can change one without having to worry about the rest. As long as you don't change that component's external interfaces, you can be comfortable that you won't cause problems that ripple through the entire system.

This sort of decoupling and componentization is something you can see in mature frameworks in other languages, like Symfony2 or MidCOM. As at Nemein we're dealing with some rather large-scale Node.js codebases, I wanted to bring this principle to this environment as well.

## Enter NodeXT

[NodeXT](http://bergie.iki.fi/nodext) is an extension-based structure for Express applications running on Node.js. The idea is that instead of building your application as a single piece, you separate it into multiple modules, called _extensions_, each responsible for a particular area of functionality.

The web application then is built by _mounting_ these extensions to particular URL paths. So for instance if you have your authentication code as extension `login`, and your user management as extension `admin`, you might configure them in the following way:

    "extensions": {
      "/login/": {
        "name": "login",
        "location": "./login"
      },
      "/users/": {
        "name": "admin",
        "location": "./admin"
      }
    }

## What should an extension do?

Each extension should be a self-contained part of the application you're building.
